the best way to destroy the West is
through its own goodness and highest
principles if you come in through the
door of free
speech that's a very valuable cudel that
you wield if you come in through
diversity which is a in one context and
definition is in fact the beauty and
power of America which is different than
when Trudeau says it because America it
is and you come in through that trapo it
gets very difficult and arguments get
complicated people's people's reference
points get jumbled so it's like every
protester is in John Lewis right
everybody who's who there's we start to
get confused about where which things
are off limits and which things
[Music]
aren't hello everybody I had the
opportunity today to continue an ongoing
conversation with a friend and colleague
of mine Greg herwitz we've been talking
intensely for 30 years and have involved
ourselves together in a multitude of
projects um including one that was
designed to help pull the Democrats to
the center Greg has been involved more
recently in an Enterprise called us the
story which is aiming at criticizing the
victim victimized or narrative that
characterizes our culture at least the
pathological elements of it but also
delving into the root causes of the
disintegration and polarization that now
characterize our culture now some of
that's a consequence of intellectual
movement but some of it is actually
facilitated by a series of Bad actors
and those involve people who are
agitating directly and consciously as
well as indirectly and unconsciously on
the international front Iran China and
Russ Russia who are using the social
media access that they have especially
to young people and particularly the
young women to really D and distort
their political view and in a manner
that's really really hard on the culture
and so Greg talks a fair bit about
exactly how that's laying itself out and
on the optimistic side we talked a fair
bit about well the counterposition to
that which is that there's Mass deep
agreement among the vast majority of
Americans on key policy issues both
International and domestic and none of
that gets any air time and so what do we
do detail out the role of the bad
International actors talk a little bit
about the psychopathic trolls and the
Demonic algorithms and stress the fact
that there is intense unity in a Central
American story hence us the story let's
say that does unite people properly and
productively and passionately and
psychologically and socially and that
there's reason for real optimism in that
regard so join us for that
discussion well Mr herwitz we meet again
it's good to see you we've
been talking for a long time about
polarization and trying to ameliorate it
and probably adding to it too
inadvertently because that's always a
problem when when feed the feedback
loops that are producing something like
polarization get ra in that's a good way
of thinking about it it isn't always
obvious how to rectify that without
amplifying it it's a big problem and so
we I've seen a tremendous increase in
the power of that polarization process
since October 7th and we've talked about
that a lot how that might be addressed
seen that polarization expand on the
left and on the right and it's not a
good thing and so while we've been
talking about that as I alluded to for
years but also more intently in the last
few months and so do you want to start
by explaining your position on this and
what you've been up to well I was tasked
first as a point of entry I guess of
going into to explore
anti-Semitism and one of the things I
found really quickly is it's not very
much about anti-Semitism um
anti-Semitism is just sort of a tool in
part of a broader
narrative and when we explored it we
found some extraordinary things we found
the extent of foreign operations coming
into America and manipulating opinion
here and the other thing that we found
that was quite extraordinary is that
America we have a lot of problems that
we need to fix here so I'm I'm under No
Illusion about that but America is in
enormous agreement about a lot of things
America is sort of foundationally good
and still oriented to what America was
with its values and we can talk about
that a little bit more later but we're
unth to I think two major factors
foreign psychological operations that
are being run here we've see that in the
University we certainly see it through
social media and a sort of profit Center
within the US of people who profit from
us being constantly outraged all the
time and so we have a very shifting view
from what the reality is of the country
to the way that we feel that
everything's falling apart and there are
in fact some concrete steps that we can
take towards trying to put things right
again okay so when you say we talk a
little bit about the organization that
you've put together to start to address
this and let everybody know where you're
coming from and also the nature of our
relationship with regard to that I come
into exploration of the culture of
Politics as a novelist it's that's my
day job for as long as I can remember
and it means I have a very different
approach because as a novelist I'm
trying to figure out how to em body
characters to articulate them and so I'm
interested in really deeply
understanding what the different
perspectives are and how they're
affected and what those value structures
are like in hopes of figuring out how to
translate and so my venture has mostly
been on the basis of curiosity and
trying to make connections between
different methods that people have of
making meaning or thinking and so part
of that is you know and then also you
know I try to tell a story to the
broadest possible audience and so my
exploration here into of this really
comes from trying to figure out who
people are and how they're thinking
without judgment you know and and trying
to identify which parts feel like
ideology or feel like opinions that are
received and where they're really coming
from and the thing that's amazing is if
you get to where people are really
coming from that's where a lot of the
divisions just collapse and you have
massive uh consensus on almost every
major issue facing America but if we can
focus more and more on the ways that we
misinterpret a term or reference one
thinker who don't like if we can have an
outrage machine that's constantly built
to do that then that's where all of our
focus goes and that's what happens and
what what's your team in this regard and
how much time are you spending not on
your novel writing and and literary
activities but on the what would you
call it political inquiry as well as
communication and and I'm curious about
your your strategy for doing your
background research for example but I'd
like to know about the team or everybody
needs to know about the team and also
give us a scope of your activities over
the last six or seven months yeah okay
so I work with with the team um what we
say that we do is research through
execution so we Research into the
culture we're post-partisan that's the
most important thing because we need to
get opinions from a very very broad
range of people across the Spectrum on
sources on opinions on what's Happening
and where the reality is so that's
immensely important and we're anti-polar
and so our main client is just sort of
the US at large because the better the
US does from our initial entry point
about anti-Semitism it's not just the
better Jews are but every minority and
every majority so we want to attack
towards shared American values again and
try and counter polarization and I work
with a um a brilliant founder and CEO of
of her own sort of research through
execution company Gretchen Barton uh
Mark riddle who is a a brilliant
political strategist and thinker um
Johnny poton is running um the studio
part of this and so we do you know
polling psychometrics research we go all
across the ecosystem we have to talk to
people way on the right and way on the
left and we take a big consensus and
then we start to test messaging we start
to build creative messaging Marshall
hovitz has been very closely involved
who's a brilliant uh director and he's
been helping oversee some of the
creative and we start to see what ideas
work which ideas get blowback from which
quarters and what things were wrong
about right and so with with this
particular Enterprise you've been
involved in attempting to pull the
Democrats back to the Center for a long
time but this particular Enterprise was
motivated specifically by the events
that surrounded October 7th and the
dementing of the culture in in
consequence of that but as youve
proceeded as I've understood from our
discussions you've realized that the
essential Focus here isn't the rise of
anti-Semitism on the right and the left
but the process of polarization in
general and it's speeding Along by
people who are motivated to do precisely
that and also motivated to profit by it
some kind of evil dynamic between the
two that that and that's fair so one of
the things we've talked about is the
fact that um the rise in anti-Semitism
i' I've always regarded that as the Jews
for example as canaries in the coal mine
because they're the perennially
successful minority and my sense is that
when the mob on the right and the left
comes for the Jews that's a prod droma
to the Mob coming for the successful in
general and that anti-Semitism is a
manifestation of something that's much
more fundamental that should be
addressed rather than a rather than
something that should be considered in
isolation and so we've talked about that
a little bit so you've been delving more
into what we might call the victim
victimizer narrative for example as well
as the um
conscious actions of the foreign
manipulators that you've described and
the collusion of the corporations on the
social media side in advancing their
agenda fair enough is that okay and the
button of anti-Semitism in some ways is
the most effective switch to flip if you
want a culture to tear itself apart
right right so that's a very effective
entry point yeah and it's fueled like I
heard a statistic the um yesterday from
someone in the Intel Community who
thought that 60% of all
anti-semitic traffic on social media is
from Russian Bots and what the Russians
did and there was a look there was a
measure that the Russians pushed forth
in the 70s to conflate you know
definitions around terms I mean they've
been playing this game for a long time
um a sort of manipulation there's a
there's a you know Iran China and Russia
are working in concert we can talk about
that more later but one of the things
they did in Paris is that they sent oper
to paint stars of David on synagogues
and people's houses to mark them out and
that creates a permission structure for
more hatred because people then start to
see this right everybody's eager for
some sort of trend of being right in the
political narrative in this sort of
frothy rage that we're built up to and
they laser in on where that is so their
job is to create permission structures
to create Jew hate which then can lead
to the worst elements and leads to
further and further polarization and
that's how you disintegrate a cult
culture really is you so chaos like the
the the precursor to the KGB in the 70s
like they funded the Black Panthers and
the
KKK they're they're not partisan geared
and when we talk about like Iran is
really in some ways the Democrats blind
spot as Russia is the Republicans like
there's a there's equivalent plays being
had and they don't really want one party
over another they want us constantly
fighting about all the wrong things that
don't solve the actual problems that the
majority of Americans need solved in
their life
and the majority of Americans are
actually decent people and they don't
care about screaming at Jews or labeling
oppressors or canceling people from a
tweet they had 10 years ago they're
trying to get on and we're going to talk
about them as well okay how will we
start this you're going to start with
your methodology I guess yeah all right
all right and it's a sociological and
political investigation strategy
combined with an attempt to determine
how to amarate the worst of the negative
consequences that you're discovering
right and if you pursue any problem deep
enough ideally you can start to reach
the root of the sickness right and
there's a realis right there's a
sickness at the base of America right
now and that is is however you want to
call it the grouping of different people
into different categories the
disintegration of an American ID under a
set of American shared value set is
spectacular it's the most spectacular
shared value set there is most of us
agree with that but if you want it's
fraction it's being fractionated into
group identity claims and that has
negative consequences in multiple
Dimensions yeah and a lot of that isn't
us a lot of that is foreign influence
and a lot of it is you know ways that we
have shifted away from shared American
values that make sense we have a
template for solving all sorts of
problems here if you want to protest we
have you know the the civil rights
movement in America is American
scripture I mean like the Beauty and
moral Clarity of that movement is that's
a foundational pillar in America and of
course it's predated with a rich
tradition that was exemplified in the
best way since I joined forces with the
daily wire plus we've built a
comprehensive collection of Premium
content get the entire collection of
mastering life strengthen your
relationship with my series marriage in
the series on masculinity discover your
purpose Envision in Destiny develop a
vision for your own life you need to do
that my new series negot iation offers
practical steps to help you enclose a
deal where both sides walk away with a
win we're also offering a three-part
series on success how to strengthen your
family and to strengthen your
relationships and to aim up people are
struggling with depression and anxiety
walk through all of that how do you cope
with it what's the best pathway forward
in addition we've explored biblical
writings and their cultural influence
our new 10p part series on the gospels
delineates the accounts of the New
Testament writings and finally join me
on a journey Through Time foundations of
the West the work I'm doing with the
daily wire brings the spirit of
Adventure forward join us on dailywire
plus
today right okay so your your
investigations really
have led you to a pessimistic conclusion
or two pessimistic conclusions and one
very optimistic conclusion and the
pessimistic realization is the degree to
which our discourse on social media
platform forms is being shaped by Bad
actors on the foreign side and like
Psychopathic manipulators and and greed
on the domestic side and Psychopathic
algorithms oh yes right right which we
can scarcely keep up with in our brains
right okay so foreign
actors people who are capitalizing on
the division that they're sewing for
primarily economic reasons and for the
uh opportunity for those operations and
propaganda to Garner attention which has
value and then that's Amplified by the
AI algorithms that we don't even
understand that are directing attention
now it's polarizing people terribly but
the optimistic issue is that as far as
you can tell from your polling that the
core and the Center of America is just
as strong as it ever has been or maybe
strong I wouldn't say just as strong we
have crafts and we're vulnerable but
everybody is ready and dying to have to
move back towards a scene version of
America and we're not helpless before
this massively accelerating change even
with algorithms we we have tools we have
to catch up to it but we have tools at
our disposal for how to make things
transparent and reset the value State we
have ways to put America together but as
long as issues remain partisan like the
Border or abortion they get worse the
incentive structures are too out of
whack but we are right for a movement to
something that is new and the the
resources we have in America I mean the
one thing I keep thinking is everyone's
angry that this celebrity goes to this
party and this genius goes to that party
is the collective resources we have in
the United States of America are
spectacular if we could figure out how
to get them all working together in a
way that makes sense and that is a fair
set of values that's smart capitalism
instead of regulatory capture and you
know lobbyism there's a whole way to
make this work beautifully but there's a
lot of other countries are incentivized
to making us hate ourselves despise
ourselves hate each other so that we
keep deteriorating while you just said
you in usbekistan and they're building
factories and it's booming I mean other
places are doing things they're they're
building it's not to suggest there's not
a lot of people doing a lot of work in
America but our output rate and
efficiency rate is terrible most people
look at screens get outraged and mail
checks off like like we're rabbits with
pellets of being outraged about things
things okay we kind of we kind of
skipped over something that in a way or
we haven't developed it enough yet
that's really very that's a claim that's
very radical I mean I don't think
anybody who's watching or listening is
going to be shocked by the fact that the
social media algorithms are prioritizing
outraged capture attention and that
there's economic utility in that but you
know you're making a claim that's on the
face of it in the realm of conspiracy
theory you know and that is that there
are foreign s operations foreign s
operations that are uh dementing the
political landscape and that that's
that's a massive Ploy that it's
conscious that it's led by Iran China
and Russia let's say and so maybe we can
shall we shall we let break that down
yeah let's do that and because I would
really like to see you prove that so the
measurements the first thing I should
say is that when you're measuring how a
culture thinks and moves it's incredibly
complic ated and so the obviously right
you can push pole I mean you talked a
lot about this early in our methodology
for outreach to one not make things
worse and two I remember we showed you a
poll from anti-Semitism in the 30s and
it said do you think Jews are clannish
do you think Jews do this in business
and you looked up and you said I'm
pretty sure if people weren't
anti-semitic before taking the survey
they would be afterward absolutely how
you form questions in form right and
they set the stage for dialogue and the
idea that a question can can be neutral
I mean this is we're veering into
postmodern territory here but but I do
we do have that when we get to the
agreement piece yeah as well than how
you phrase things matter so the first
thing is is we have an approach that is
based on genuine curiosity for for the
longest term good we do it's not we're
not like sort of that's what we're in it
for and so we're asking we make
inquiries there's a bunch of different
things you have to study and then we try
and fill in all the missing pieces as
best we can but I think it's a very I
think that it's overwhelmingly
compelling what the case is but we take
polls Gretchen does stuff for some
people aren't as articulate in polling
when we do the focus group aside from
the polling that she has them bring up
and do visual representations of how
they're thinking there's a bunch of
means of Ingress that we try to have
from all different sides of the culture
small focus groups running stuff by you
running stuff by progressives running
stuff by leaders and people on the
street and so it's a it's a combination
of polls but I want to highlight a few
things that or approaches so we did this
Tik Tok study about foreign scops and we
found that on Tik Tok women between the
age of 18 and
34 have an unfavorability a view of
America's unfavorability that is 52
points up above the norm so think about
what an extraordinary outlier that is
for one demographic group right opinions
about Israel and um Jews follow as they
often do right so you know little Satan
big Satan they're tied together in this
sort of obsessive focus of
deteriorating that particular value set
American value set um and so we were
wondering why that was yeah so let let's
just reiterate that a minute because it
it's it's a striking finding that
shouldn't be glossed over so you've
identified a a subset of the American
population which is very large women
between the ages of 18 and 34 so all
young women fundamentally who also are
opinion Setters in a in a variety of
ways that are important for the culture
and how the culture right right and that
you've seen that their political views
about the US and about about Israel for
example given the state of of the Middle
East at the moment are wildly skewed in
contrast to virtually all other
demographic groups in the United States
and that they get they primarily get
their information from Tick Tock well
that's the that's the punchline so when
we went to go find it and find out what
accounted for this they were two
standard deviations above the norm on
getting their information from Tik Tok
now Tik Tok as we know is owned by China
and China exports very different Tik Tok
than they import they import broccoli
and Export crack so the students there
have a time limit on it the last time I
checked it was 20 minutes a day and all
the information is
educational but they export stuff with
choppier and choppier views and it'll be
like you know girl in bikini was Hitler
good I mean it's vacillating constantly
between all sorts of sort of junk
food and so that's an effort to a you
can shorten our kids attention spans and
how much of that do you think is a
consequence of the relatively Wild West
status of the free market of ideas in
the west and how much of it the best way
to destroy the West is through its own
goodness and highest principles if you
come in through the door of free
speech that's a very valuable cudel that
you wield if you come in through
diversity which is a in one context in
definition is in fact the beauty and
power of America which is different than
when Trudeau says it because America it
is and you come in through that trapo it
gets very difficult and arguments get
complicated people's people's reference
points get jumbled so it's like every
protester isn't John leis right
everybody who's who there's we start to
get confused about where which things
are off limits and which things aren't
and do do you envision like cadres of
Chinese Communists sitting behind the
scenes manipulating the algorithms to
twist and DeMent the US I mean the fact
that what the Chinese feed their own
children and what they're broadcasting
into the United States is marked but
it's hard for me to understand whether
how much of that's actually planned
subversion and how much of it is um in
itable consequence of the difference
between their the cultures at multiple
levels a lot of it is planed subversion
I mean Russia has you know Russia and
China have bot Farms we can get to this
too Iran is I shouldn't say Iran I
should say the Islamic regime in Iran
yes are brilliant Messengers and
strategists right but a lot of the power
for infiltrating through social media
comes from China and it comes from
Russia and part of it too is like I
mentioned about Russia sending people to
Paris to paint the stars of David A lot
of it is you set a trend you don't need
to do a whole lot if you want to flip a
trip wire to make a culture tear itself
apart make people doubt you know
everything I mean the efforts to make to
turn us against each other on
vaccination I mean I remember Russia was
playing around back in early days when
people were talking about childhood
vaccinations early days and causing um
autism in the in in the like I mean
they've been working on this for decades
so they work on a topic they devolve it
and you know like we have Solutions we
have consensus in America for
immigration we're going to see how much
we have abortion there's topic after
topic that we could find reasonable
consensus on so why don't we and the
answer is you know foreign operations
that come in domestic players who profit
off you know um rage and
polarization um and then a kind of De
evolution of our story all right so you
used the tick tock issue as a case study
in scops yeah let's see let's see if
it's effective so Ukrainian support in
2022 only 7% of the Americans felt the
US was providing too much support 85% of
Americans supported Russian sanctions in
20 2024 31% believed that it was too
much support so that's significant
that's 4X and this is how things are one
too it's not like a sop is brilliantly
executed it's what you want is to move
things 10 20 degre what you want to do
is shift momentum and then lean on it in
different ways um and look at the
difference here um 42% believ that us
was not providing enough support 24% so
that dropped significantly now In
fairness two years later in a war people
are tired resources are tired there's a
lot of different reasons for this
however and I also think though that the
the conviction and the basic moral
underpinning of how the war is going in
Ukraine haven't changed substantially
from Mission creep it seems to me that
the people who are opposed to it were
mostly opposed to it in concept of what
the role was rather than it's something
that people are now exhausted by the
expenditure but that certainly plays a
role and some people are but nonetheless
we know that Russia ran a giant multi-
Channel disinformation campaign aimed at
weakening international support they had
false narratives fake news forged
documents tens of thousands of people of
content so if you if you pelet shotgun
pellet shoot that into the culture this
influencer this podcast these you know
500 clips that are maximized by
algorithms to drive outrage and more
views and you can gig the algorithms you
can take an effort and really shifted
and we shouldn't have foreign people
shouldn't be chanting foreign slogans
and reiterating foreign talking points
in America unless they're choosing to do
so one of the things that struck me as
miraculously
uh
insane and
demented over the last few months was
the fact
that Iran's head
cam tweeted out his congratulations to
the protesters on American campuses for
supporting Hamas and I
thought the fact that that happened in
and of itself was something remarkable
to behold but also the fact that
like it it it flew by Under The Radar
essentially I don't see much difference
between that and and Hitler con
congratulating you know the neo-nazis in
the United States in 1939 for the
remarkable success recruiting in
campuses and so let's let's zero in in
Iran again because you well you talked
about Tick Tock in particular here I
want to get to the Iran thing I think
that's a that's a superb Point yeah so
people here are not mirroring the voices
of of all the countries in the Middle
East yeah right it's the Islamic regime
it's not Saudi UAE andq who despite
complications that are significant which
I'm not downplaying yeah are building
things and having trade even if there's
resources going elsewhere there so it's
not like Iran the Iranian Islamic state
is Islam or the Middle East right and
it's not like it's wor element that's
right and like Jordan the king in Jordan
is is has done spectacular things
Egypt incredibly complicated
relationship with Israel but I think
they know how to contend with each other
we're taking up the Cry of a regime a
foreign regime that even its own people
hate hate yes and the diaspora did
incredbly inessive you don't meet a lot
of um Sam Harris said this to me
yesterday said I'm not meeting a lot of
confused Iranian Jews morally it's like
they have they're really clear and and
we did a documentary we're going to show
later that was like let's talk to Muslim
Jewish gay let's talk to a bunch of
different Iranians and talk Iranian
Americans or Iranians in the diaspora
and just talk about what this Playbook
looks
like Harris's economic plan if you can
call it a plan is a disaster get ready
for massive tax hikes and almost 40% top
income tax rate 7% increase to the
corporate tax and a ridiculous capital
gains tax on unrealized gains also that
she can add almost $2 trillion to a
current $2 trillion deficit you might be
thinking it's time to make more of your
your savings tax sheltered and inflation
sheltered this is where the daily wire
trusts the good people at Birch gold
group to help you Birch gold will assist
you in converting an existing Ira or
401K into an IRA in gold and the best
news you don't pay a penny out of pocket
just text the word Jordan to 9898 98 and
get a free info on gold there's no
obligation just information on
fortifying your savings before the crazy
really hits as the exclusive gold
partner of the daily wire for the past 8
years with an A+ rating from the Better
Business Bureau and thousands of happy
customers you can trust Birch gold too
text Jordan to the number 9898 98 for
your free info kit today that's Jordan
to the number 9898 98
today they're not quoting ideas in
Jordan or Egypt
or UAE like this is a very particular
choice and to me that is a state that
the regime and you can like that regime
if you want but that regime has declared
that what it wants is the destruction
and death of America right that's its
long-term goal and so right it has been
since 1979 right it's not even frankly
to me the that regime in particular it's
not even Russia or
China right right right no I think it's
not that Russia China we don't have a
lot of that we have to figure out with
them I mean there's no question that
that it's problematic the ways that
they're working but it's it's to me it's
it's very puzzling because it's it's
unequivocal that you're reiterating and
I'm not saying that this is all
protesters and not saying this is all
people who are taking positions uh for
Palestine and arguing on behalf of
Palestine I'm saying that the threat of
people within that the that are vocal
and are reiterating statements from a
regime that has its Express long-term
goal the destruction of America yeah
that that's something that's worth
that's noteworthy yeah yeah I would say
so I mean I could imagine peace with
Russia it's harder for me to imagine
long-term peace with China because the
Chinese are communists and that actually
turns out to be a problem but I still
think that's a lot of trade with China
exactly exactly China pragmatic but Iran
is a different issue the Islamic State
there because their stated goal is
enmity there's no desire whatsoever for
peace they're after a kind of uh total
and genocidal Victory and they're
declared enemies of the United States
and have been for forever and they're
the on saying yeah it's not like we're
inventing this and labeling them as such
this is by their own definition and
there and by the way you know the
long-term relationship with Iran I think
is at some point I I think is going to
be incredible the Iranian people are
amazing right an educated population
that was headed in the right direction
until the 1979 Revolution which has been
quite the ongoing catastrophe right and
so okay so how do you see
the the practically speaking how do you
see the trail of causality let's say
between the Iranian manipulators behind
the scene Tick Tock American young women
and let's say the campus protests that
have been going on forever since well
everywhere since October 7th it's
important to acknowledge that America is
an hapless victim in this like we have
not done a good job minding our
institutions from capture and Corruption
institutions from the left to the right
so we have plenty to do with this I'm
not suggesting were just sort of hapless
victims and all this if we had stayed on
top of Look What We allow with kids with
the Internet is so insane I mean imagine
if you're 12 years old and your parents
were like you're going to go to school
but you're going to have in your pocket
unlimited porn access to the world's
greatest terrorists who can talk to you
in person and the world's greatest
criminals right and it's designed to
shorten your attention span and it's in
your pocket it's in your desk it's in
your locker it's in the bathroom at
school and we can't do anything about it
because free speech that's an asinine
position and there's people like
Jonathan height who clearly is you know
is has brilliantly delineated where and
how we can have this be one tool of
communication everything's not a free
speech issue this isn't the the Nazis
marching during skoki where the ACLU
back when the ACLU was was rigorously
for free speech defended their right to
March that's not this moment this is
kids who don't have developed brains yet
and we're blasting them with all sorts
of information and we have allowed that
we've allowed we've left the door
open and we're I think that a lot of
Americans are ready to start to figure
out how we can close that door through
reasonable dialogue if we can find it
through like the rage and the rage
industrial complex yeah but they're
ready now well it's it there's a massive
technical problem here too which is that
the institutions necessary to allow for
effective communication to take place
which is what protections for free
speech
ensure haven't kept pace with the
technological transformation and the
problem
with communal existence in general
including communal communication is the
potential for capture of the
communication strategies by truly Bad
actors by the sadistic
mellian psychopath narcissistic types
and then who now who now have teams of
addiction specialists and AI deep
machine learning at their disposal which
means every time a kid is scrolling
through X and their eye snags they're
reading what things are drawing his
attention their their brains are being
hacked I don't think you can actually be
on certain kinds of of Rage social media
and be sane while you're on it I don't
think it's you that's having your
thoughts and we're letting this go to
kids on mitigate you think that's
particularly true of Tik Tok Tik Tok
Twitter I mean look it depends where you
can go down a podcast Rabbit Hole you
can go down it on YouTube I don't think
it's I don't think it's fair to call out
the platform it's really like our
willingness to have capitalizes on much
shorter form content you know so there's
going to be yeah yeah so I think there
is a relationship but maybe it's on
boarding to go deeper into YouTube and
po you know because that's a yeah fair
enough but there's probably something
pathological there's a pathological
inclination that's built
into social media platforms that
capitalize on short-term attention right
yes and shortening it yeah so they have
the control we're turning over one way
to think of it is we're turning over
generational control of our children's
psychological emotional and physical
development and nervous systems to
hackers in big corporations and foreign
governments like we don't need to do
that there's very clear parameters we
can have different ways that we figure
stuff out we can design different kinds
of phones it's not perfect but to throw
up our hands and act as if it's totally
unreasonable that we want to build a
healthy generation of kids and that we
don't want polarization and people who
hate America as their clearly stated aim
to be hijack manipulated polarization
right especially when the majority of
Americans don't want this it's not like
you're the majority saying let's have it
and we'll get to that let's let's take a
quick skip through a couple things we
looked at so anti-em ISM it seems is
sort of exploding this is a stat from
the ADL again with any news source
there's complications and issues the FBI
just released a report showing that hate
crimes are exploding against Jews and
it's it's pretty well received so let's
say that these stats are are going to be
lay out the numbers for the listeners um
approximately well 2023 we have
8,873 defined uh incidents of
anti-Semitism up from 912 in 2014 right
and it's pretty flat from 2014 to to so
what happened in 2023 we know also that
that within hours of the attack on
October 7th that the information and
Bots were primed to go into America to
start switching that from China it's
been tracked people people looking at
the content saw the content that was
sort of lined up and ready to go look it
wasn't even if it wasn't like let's say
we're not explaining it by Clean
conspiracy that phone calls went on
between Russia Iran and China and they
all planned and spun up factories but
this is just ongoing in material that
they already have and or doing and so it
found much more fertile ground the
conversation flared up around it you
infuse more Bots into a volcanic
eruption and off it goes so the
conspiracy doesn't have to be a bond
villain but this is the way that this is
the way that it moves domestic
psychopaths are um and we can talk about
the dark tet tread later because I've
heard you're a psychologist so maybe you
can lay out yeah some people think so
you know and so that's that but the
thing is it's really so here's this kind
of vend diagram of of of the ways that
Russia China and Iran are messing with
us Iran is the democrat's blind spot
Russia is the Republicans blind spot for
the most part that's the most fertile
ground but again they're not partisan
they want chaos you know they want to
fund you know uh pro- gay rights
anti-gay rights they did that in Russia
to distract right I mean so they they
what they want is chaos and our
distraction to be elsewhere and all of
our money and resour versus going to
partisan you know um organization like
like just moving all of our getting all
of our rage focused on one outcome
because if you get angry enough and
polarized enough then no matter what
happens the other side's an existential
threat and all other values Fall Away
how about housing how about insurance
it's like existential threat and so
that's what they've been driving towards
is this polarization where we hate each
other which is totally new I mean you
remember McCain taking the microphone
away from the woman when she said she
was you know terrified that uh about
Obama and like we have a we have such a
tradition that regardless of what
happens we we try to bring forth the
best however imperfectly and corruptly
of the parties and at least have a a
surface Narrative of wanting what's best
for the country because the narrative
trickles down in a reality as best it
can points to the necessity of an
overlying right of an
overarching Union of identity rather
than the fractionation of the idty but
if we're not even pretending let's say
people said oh it was all pretending
it's like it wasn't all pretending the
1990s like we had a lot of things
clearly not all pretend I have I have a
friend uh who's very interesting uh
conservative uh you know lives in Texas
the whole thing and he said to me and we
can get to this part later he said
what's so amazing is he's from a much
more rigorously conservative background
but he said we were almost there I
remember my kids coming home and they'd
have a friend come over who was black
and a friend come over who was gay and
everyone behaved and they wouldn't even
think to sort of mention it because
everything was sort of clear like we
were in this place we had that in
Toronto CLE when my kids grew up it was
completely irrelevant it like an idol
and we had it and the answer is
continuing progression and movement
towards division of groups rather than
acceptance of groups that point up
towards the the shared identity I mean
that's one of the things with this is
something that's worth getting to we can
return to that so here's the thing
that's also interesting America isn't
really aside from obviously explosive
things that we're seeing on the fringes
which are scary and I think terrifying
and wholly unacceptable under American
values but aside from that America isn't
actually real America Broad America not
captured America anti-semitic 92% of
Americans thought the October 7th attack
was unjustified 92% % 73% believe it's
important to maintain the US Israeli
Alliance whatever you think of that 73%
is a
lot um terrorist attacks here's a
question we ask like 911 in America and
October 7th in Israel should not be
tolerated and those countries have a
right to defend themselves 92% of people
support that right and then different
people like we we pulled out that um you
know the plurality 46% believe protest
on college campuses are deeply troubling
well a third 31% believe college
students are always going to protest
something so you add those up and you're
at what 77% of people who are like not
on board or understanding that I mean
these are these are really significant
however if you get a good foothold like
when Russia was allowed to paint stars
of David on on synagogues and people's
houses or when they sent operatives to
do that there's purchase there's a
foothold but there is for a lot of
things Jews aren't the only existential
issue in America how did you choose
which internet service provider to use
the sad thing is most of us have very
little choice because isps operate like
monopolies in the regions that they
serve they then use their Monopoly power
to take advantage of customers data caps
bandwidth throttling the list goes on
and on but worst of all isps have the
ability to keep a log of every website
you visit and so can a ton of other
third parties unless you use expressvpn
you might think you're browsing
privately in incognito mode but here's a
wakeup call your internet service
provider mobile network and even your
Wi-Fi network admin can still you'll see
every website you visit that's right
your school your boss or your parents
could be peing at your online activity
that's where expressvpn comes in it
reroutes 100% of your traffic through
secure encrypted servers so third
parties can't see your browsing history
why is Express bpn the best choice well
expressvpn hides your IP address making
it incredibly difficult for anyone to
track what you're doing online it's also
remarkably easy to use just open up the
app click one button and boom you're
protected it's as simple as that plus it
works across all your devices as well
your phone laptop tablets you name it so
you can stay private on the go and if
you need more convincing top Tech
reviewers like CNET and The Verge rate
expressvpn is their number one choice I
use expressvpn every day to maintain
control over my personal information in
a digital age where data is the new
currency protect your online privacy
today by visiting expressvpn.com Jordan
that's
expressvpn.com Jordan and you can get an
extra 3 months free expressvpn.com
jordant toay
see you know the on the on the
philosophical side the Hallmark of
postmodernism is disbelief is skepticism
regarding uniting metan narratives right
that's that's the that's the core
definition of postmodernism is
skepticism of uniting metan narratives
and this insistence that true
identity has to devolve down the value
hierarchy to something approximating
group identity and then that morphs very
easily into a victim victimizer
narrative and so you can see that this
polarization is also being produced by
the ascendency of postmodernism as a
intellectual exercise in the
universities and your polling and work
indicates that the center does hold and
that it's much more solid than people
believe and that to the degree that we
accept that postmodern doctrine that
there is no such thing as a shared ident
in the UK because the UK people in the
UK are debating that now there's no such
thing as a Canadian identity our own
bloody prime minister in Canada has said
exactly that that the
American identity the American project
is nothing but but racist and oppressive
that demolishes that Transcendent
narrative that actually constitutes
social unity and it facilitates movement
towards identity that's based on more
fractionated elements of race or sex or
ethnicity or intelligence or wealth
whatever it happens to be there there's
a million different ways to divide
people and that that starts to it looks
to me like that starts to inevitably
produce something like a victim
victimizer narrative and then that
expresses itself for example in
particularly toxic forms of
anti-Semitism sort of as the canary in
the coal mine that's that looks to me
like the causal pathway and you you know
one of the things that that you've noted
and we've talked about before that's
fascinating is the postmodernist did not
come in through political Theory they
came in through English departments they
came in to attack and deconstruct
stories that's fine for one class in a
seminar like fine we can read dared Don
Fuko but you know when when I was an
undergraduate it was already creeping in
where I you know wanted to just take
Shakespeare and I was taught by
brilliant brilliant um leaders in the
field Helen vendler and margerie Garber
and margerie Garber would do stuff with
playing you know let's have a lecture on
gender and sexual ity in Shakespeare but
she was teaching
Shakespeare um in a way that was kind of
upheld rather than viewing every piece
every every sort of glowing um icon in
the culture Plato and Shakespeare
viewing them from a different Dynamic
that's outside of their genius and their
intended work but as what are the
Dynamics of it um Douglas Murray said
something said something else you know
brilliant the other day where he said
where he gave an alternate um
commencement speech at Columbia when
they didn't get to have one and he
pointed up and they have like Dante and
Plato these statues of everybody and he
said we think it's so it's so
interesting that you students who are
here think that you can judge or not all
of them but some students here think
that they can judge Shakespeare but in
reality Shakespeare should be judging us
we have that wrong you can't go to
school and not learn about things that
are greater than you no matter what they
are but if pop po modernism is about
attacking the story that's very
effective to study and to read and to
think about that as a motive being just
like nihilism there's plenty things we
should read and study but to have that
go in and attack the story in
universities through English departments
largely to disintegrate narrative and
the notion of shared narrative it's
ridiculous it's like if we decided to
put everything through the frame ofal
narratives come up immediately it's so
that's right so part of this is so here
we looked at what how every minority
group views every other minority group
um on the issue of do do you share my
values so every minority group
experiences some form of bias yeah well
that's almost built into the conception
of minority of course but it's but
what's cool is what we're what we're
going to get to on the next slide yeah
okay which is a funny inversion so but
like so you know let's look at um you
know Jews this is do you share my values
do you have too much power do you
exaggerate your minority status and are
you not warm which is an interesting one
mhm um I think that Jews did did way
they underperformed on Warmness man
because I think Jews are pretty warm but
it's pretty funny if you look at this
it's like okay these are different
shapes and sizes it's not like Jews are
bigger than what is happening within
other groups and every group is allowed
to have opinions about other groups too
right so I'm also I'm not that concerned
when people talk about anti-Semitism to
me it's like anti-Semitism is like if
someone doesn't let you join your
country club Jew hate is when they're
running across campus at UCLA screaming
Gass the Jews so you know some of this
there's some normal variations it's not
any worse for Arab Asian black Hispanic
white or Jews it's everyone's in the mix
depending on what it is some are
slightly worse than others but what's
interesting then is I wanted to look at
how people view other things like
corporations rich people and Christians
and if you look at the bottom here
people like me this is how much do you
matter in America and the 41% of
respondents said people like me way down
at the bottom but if you look at the top
it's corporations and rich people and
Christians and so that's a bit of a
grievance
narrative in a certain way because you
know some rich people have earned being
rich and are good people and contribute
and build the economy like it's not like
you can just group rich people into one
category of evil schemers and Christians
certainly it's Preposterous that that
they're up there and so what this in
combination with
this and this shows me is that if you
just describe anybody as a group of
course they're going to be starting to
peel out and they're going to start to
differentiate in the numbers and so
maybe it's a good idea instead of
talking about groups whether that's
Christians or Jews or Muslims that we
talk about American law and the shared
value set that we can all move towards
because then things get vast better
important maybe it's also important like
this this points to something deeper
perhaps at at two Lev levels of depth I
mean it struck me for the longest period
of time that there was something
pathological about the insistence that
group identity should be privileged to
use that postmodernist parlance that as
soon as you make group identity category
the sin quanon of social discourse as
soon as you start to talk about people
in relationship to their group identity
everyone becomes a minority all
minorities are oppressed and there's
immediately a victimizer now you might
say well what have we done about that
historically in the west to remediate
against that that uh tendency which is
deeper than the merely political right
it's an inevitability of categorization
well two things at the at the deepest
political level that's the liberal
project the classic Scottish
Enlightenment liberal project that says
we categorize people as individuals
that's the that's the Hallmark
appropriate person perception and then
that's grounded in something even more
profound and that's true technically
even for the Scottish Enlightenment
which is the judeo-christian idea that
every single person man and woman alike
is made in the image of God and so
there's a fundamental insistence there
that when you're looking at a person you
look at them as an individual a
multi-dimensional individual composed of
a multitude you might say of min
minority identities and positions of
privilege right for every single
individual that's all Amalgamated into
treating the person as if they're
a soul with intrinsic value that's being
given dignity uh as as a consequence of
divine Fiat and if you don't do that and
you devolve into identity groups you
immediately get chaos and strife and
pathology and the sense of personal
victimization and the and when we talk
about play is attacking you for your
virtue right that's the most effective
psychological attack is to attack
someone for their virtue yeah nowhere
has that experiment culminated so
beautifully and for so long as in
America you can move to New York City
from Pakistan or Ireland and a week
later you you're a New Yorker I could go
move to France for 20 years and I
wouldn't be French our assimilation
process the values that we have when
done correctly insanely and not turned
into a partisan Nightmare and when we
have proper Civic onboarding to make
sure that the communities are integrated
into the American value set that allows
us to take in immigrants which is our
strength it's it's remarkable we have
the best integrated ethnic non
communities in the world it's amazing
what can happen here and so quickly and
I want to talk about before we get to
more agreement I think it's really
important that we talk about some frames
of how we look into talk about Americans
when we're trying to figure out what
they're thinking and we like a lot of
the experts tend to do this really
anthropologically you know like well we
need to get to this voter who's you know
a single man who owns one cat and lives
here and what's the targeting for it's
like this weird and it's if you if you
you have to think about embodying the
person's values where they are what
their mindset is what their day looks
like and so this is a statistic that's
that's been floating around a lot and
has spoken of of quite often out on
campaign Trails which is that the
average true swing voter and the best
way that we like to Define that is an
Obama Trump voter like this so so
whatever you want to call that thing but
that clearly is somebody who can think
broadly across the Spectrum who isn't
going to be inherently racist or anti-
any Notions that are conservative this
is somebody who's who's available across
the Spectrum Works two and a half jobs
commutes three hours a day on average
and thinks about politics four minutes a
week so when we're crazed and we're
talking about you have to understand the
Dual loyalty Trope that's happening with
Jews with Israel why it's an offense
right you have to understand why wearing
a sombrero on Cinco de Mayo and cultural
appropriation is a big issue you have to
understand why we should lose our minds
if somebody kneels at a like like
there's so much churn that we have they
got four minutes a week they're that
means they're that what they're doing is
solving problems trying to pay bills car
pooling kids they're engaged with all
sorts of people in reality of different
political Persuasions who they have to
get along with because they don't have
the luxury of just you know
furiously interacting not in the real
world so how much of that political
activism per se you know Rob Henderson
has spoken about luxury beliefs is to
what degree is political Obsession a
luxury lifestyle 100% it just replace
branding because you know once the
political seeps into everything the
biggest celebrities in a way or
political and so we you know if we if
you lose the ethics of a field the
ethics of doctoring the ethics of of
being a writer once things once we start
to reward more highly the political
which to me for instance is a writer
that's the worst of it that means you're
writing propaganda the same in in
Psychotherapy for example or in medicine
but once political Creeps in then what
we're elevating to the highest place for
the most people interested in with a lot
of the unearned benefits of sudden
status grabbing is going to be hard
angrier partisan well let's just say
we're you're opening up a very big Lane
for partisan merchants of Rage who can
gather people around in their moral
agreement and in continuing to to turn
the other side into a monolith where the
other side is both things that you know
they every projection for everything bad
that happened and you can't conceivably
deal with them and all of their experts
are captured and all of their ideas are
bad and there's no version of new Nu
want and everything is a cynical play to
win power and then take over and do
everything and I'm not just talking at a
presidential level I'm I mean pick a
pick a position that we've debated
reasonably in the Public Square pick
these these these average average swing
voters you said they're called lwi
information voters by academic academics
and media so here's what makes me angry
about that yeah so they're low partisan
information voters a lot of the partisan
landscape is polluted and toxic
but there to me that's actually what
high information voters are a high
information voter knows and cares when
milk is more expensive they know what's
happening at the gas station they know
how the kids at their school are doing
they know what's happening with the peer
groups at the school they they're
concerned with local issues are proximal
but real because of that and reality is
where ideology goes to die and so when
we talk about low information voters to
me it's always so amusing because if you
could talk to them and consider them
high information voters you might
actually learn a lot more about the
things that we need to fix in the ways
that can be more positive and you can
figure out where you get points of
connection and you also might run into
you know stubborn um issues where
they've been subjected to different
ideological stuff I'm not saying it's
like some you know it's not like the
myth of the diner Patron who's you know
American down to his apple pie heart
because obviously people have different
Notions around it and different Notions
about partisan issues isues but they're
engaged in the real world and need real
they don't just want real solutions they
need real solutions if the health
insurance company denies your claim four
times and you can't get to it because
you're working two jobs and you have a
special needs kid you're not engaged in
all this you can't take up every why do
you think the average swing voter has
2.5
jobs I think that they're scrambling to
make things work and they're willing to
try Obama and Trump so Alissa because
they're scrambling they're likely to be
more experimental
well and also that they they're seeing
that no big ideological answer is
solving real problems so yeah they're
not locked in to say you know I it's I
got to be a Democrat I got to be a
republican what kind of percentage of
the voters are the swing voters oh I
don't know that statistic I do know that
the election will likely be decided by 9
million voters in seven swing States
right right so that's presential so
that's
13th of the population something like
that about 3% mhm and what's weird is
that 3% actually represents a lot more
where America is the rest of America
who's who's looking at you know trying
to figure out what to do so even though
they're inclined to vote differently
it's not like people
have we need to keep moving America
towards the middle in discussion of what
shared values we're going to have no
matter what happens there's a lot of
work in front of us the next four or
five years right there's a lot of work
to resuscitate and make make this
country unified again in certain ways
and there's concrete steps we can and
that has to be done regardless of the
outcome of the presidential election no
matter what we don't have a luxury to
just wait four years we have to be
incredibly Vigilant about what's
happening right now there's bad players
massing there's there's people on the
world stage who are seeking to
outperform and disrupt and some destroy
us and we don't have time to be having
an endless food fight in the cafeteria
on virtually
every platform of Engagement and people
I think will be immensely rewarded who
step forward but the problem is a lot
have not been right there's a lot of
penguins who've been jostled off the
cliff but I think that if somebody
strikes out with bold leadership and
continues that consistently and
everyone's got different opinions about
who's doing that more or less in the
political space do you see positive
signs of that let's see if we can be
optimistic in a bipartisan way for a
moment do you see signs of that on the
Republican and the Democrat sides at the
moment I mean with the Republicans for
me at least what I see gathering around
Trump is a team of people that pull the
emphasis in many ways away from Trump
himself Trump has ex Democrats
surrounding him you could argue that
he's an ex Democrat himself for that
matter and so I can see a consensus that
consists of a multitude of different
ideas many of which are arguably more
core to the American um the Central
American Enterprise than before I can
see that developing around them and so
and then on the Democrat side we've
talked about this a little bit the well
do you want to discuss what you see
happening for example at the DNC and
with Harris's attempts to make
hypothetical attempts at least which is
at least something to move things more
to the center well I think they very
clearly the DNC was an expression of a
movement back to the center and why do
you think that was clear what was clear
about there there's a counterargument
that people make where they say this is
all cover for a secret Turon horse
Marxist operation to take over
America and to me it's like projection
for me is when someone's a monolith but
two things at once simultaneously so she
can't be you know a vapid empty vessel
with no brain who also is The Mastermind
of smuggling in another agenda and so
part of what
happened this is just a differentiation
issue do we want to decide that she's
purely you know evil in a monolithic way
and that nothing can be learned well
then you don't have anywhere to go but
she clearly moved towards the middle on
a number of issues um you know people
were chanting she had the parents of um
hostages on
stage uh her husband Doug M Hoff's
children and her stepchildren were on
stage during that that was a big big
moment who she chose to have speak was a
big moment why why who she chose to have
speak every speaking engagement at the
DNC is is a carefully
orchestrated set of real politic
calculations and so is it different than
if she hosted you know I Islamic uh
islamist protesters on stage of course
it's different of course that's a
different image and that's it's naive to
think that the it's not the result of
protract negotiations and power dynamics
that happen behind the scene and so even
if she's staging it and a lot of people
rightly I think for for anything that
happens in the political sphere are
cynical that that represents sort of a
true more Center um in my estimation I
think that her behavior and movement
around 2020 was an aberration from where
she is she's a prosecutor from Oakland
she moved sort of too far in a sets of
views but I think this is more of a
return to where she naturally is and I
think people also have to be able to
learn and make adjustments well the
overarching issue is regardless of all
that in some sense the battle to move
the political system toward the center
has to proceed regardless that's right
and she or or we know what the
consequences are look veterans were on
stage you know Alyssa slackin got up and
spoke about USA you know I mean who she
chose and who she had there and what was
said represented a very moderate ready
view of America on the stage now that's
not to suggest that there's not problems
it's not to suggest that I don't
understand cynicism it's not to suggest
that everything is solved but what we're
talking about is where we are seeing
movement well that's also what's well
the view that we're attempting to
delineate and promote with regards to
the material we're walking through today
what is the central core now I I want to
return can I say one more thing about
that so I mean the other thing that
matters is we were talking about this
the message
matters and so like I was saying it
matters what happened at the DNC for
instance but the message that she's
promulgating has been met with very wide
approval by democrats and by other
people so she's choosing a path that the
messaging that's people chanting USA
people chanting bring them home when she
called out Iran Hamas and Hezbollah
though I still would like a lot more
definition on her foreign policy which I
think a lot of people do but that's
being met very positively and I think
that it is a better match so you think
that's the beginning of something a
virtuous spiral perhaps it's a positive
feedback loop it's something that could
happen and it it's more likely to happen
than if all the messaging was going the
other way just vital and anger and
Division and backwards right and so your
view is at least that that should be
promoted and encouraged yes and also
just acknowledged and and that it can't
be completely locked behind the sphere
that it's a massive conspiracy theory
and we can't possibly differentiate
movement the other thing I'll say about
these issues of race that's very
interesting is I think that she as a as
a black prosecutor in Oakland which is a
like tough pretty badass job should she
move to the middle and should these
indications that she's moving to the
middle proved true I think is in a very
strong position to create that
permission for America to do the same
thing October 7th marked one year since
a devastating attack on Israel the the
most severe tragedy for the Jewish
people since the Holocaust 12200
Israelis lost their lives and over 250
were taken hostage today the conflict in
Israel continues unabated earlier this
month Iran launched an unprecedented
assault firing nearly 200 ballistic
missiles at the Holy Land Israel faces
threats from all sides with enemies
seeking its destruction in these dire
circumstances the International
Fellowship of Christians and Jews stands
as a Beacon of Hope they're on the
ground providing crucial support food
shelter and safety to those in need
during this crisis since the War Began
thousands of reservists everyday Israeli
citizens have left their families to
serve their country many soldiers have
been injured and their families urgently
need our help this is where you come in
your gift of $45 today helps the
fellowship provide food and other
necessities to these families ensuring
their survival during these challenging
times to help support the fellowship's
critical work please visit Jordan forthe
fellowship. .org and donate now your
contribution can make a real difference
that's Jordan forthe fellowship.org
well you've been trying to move the Dem
we're in a bit of a a bit of a
partisan um yeah detour detour here but
I think that's okay momentarily and
we'll hit the main track again you've
been doing what you can to move the
Democrats away from the radical leftists
or even to bring their attention to the
fact that those people exist and are
serious toward the center and that's
been going on for a long time and so
what what what are your views with
regards to the success and perhaps also
the dangers of the approach that you've
taken you know and that I've been
involved in how are you feeling about
the consequences of that after doing it
for a fair amount of time so I feel okay
about it for a couple reasons one is
you've been involved we've you know
we've had a lot of conversations and and
you've also involve me in efforts to do
the same for conservatives and for
republicans and in a way I feel like the
more that I've learned about politics
such as I have the more that I've
learned that that you have to just move
towards any movement that's towards the
good without lying or manipulation and
even when I did commercials and spots
that were um that were political I
always hired a republican to do all the
factchecking I ran a lot of stuff by you
we're a lot of stuff by other
conservatives at all levels of a
demographic tried to make Fair arguments
it doesn't mean that all of them were
tried not to drive the wrong instincts
through messaging and tried to convey
things that are truthful in Fair
argument ways that people could relate
to to me that's and I didn't make it
like when I do partisan work I don't do
make any money or virtually nothing also
to make sure that I don't have a weird
incent of structure and I'm helping
anytime that the phone rings from you
with people who you think are good faith
players within the Republican party or
conservatives of which I've met an
enormous amount who have had huge impact
on my thinking and so in a way we're a
conduit of ideas back and forth between
both parties and so you know and this is
a continuation of that it's a
continuation of that work from an even
more post-partisan
perspective which means I do certainly
have my
own political ideas and preferences
they're just not I I just don't view
that as what's important I can better
report on what other are thinking than
offer my own individual opinion so part
of this is identifying the pathological
players at The Fringe who are amplifying
and capitalizing on um division as well
as identifying delineating and
strengthening the center and that's a
bipartisan attempt and it it can be
bipartisan partly the reason it can be
bipartisan is because the pathological
actors the dark tetrad types and the
foreign operators they're not playing a
partisan game they're either out for
themselves 100% or they're operating
under the ages of of whatever their own
political agenda is in relationship to
their own country that's that has
nothing to do with partisan politics
right because well one of the things
I've really learned about the dark
tetrad types the the psychopathic
manipulators and there are plenty of
them online is that they will use
whatever is hot yeah on either side of
the political Spectrum to further their
pathological manipulations and that's
and that's a common enemy of anyone
who's aiming at the good regardless of
their partisan perspective precisely
that's why we're called us the story
it's the US it's the US sort of against
all these entities and the hottest
button issue that is obviously one
historically that the world is primed
for is anti-Semitism that's why there's
so much laying of that groundwork from
foreign groups and are there old hatreds
that emerge if permission structures are
granted of course and are there domestic
players who who hate Jews of course but
you're allowed to hate Jews you just
can't break the law like go hate them
from your apartment you don't get to
deface property or Menace people or make
true threats to individuals or fight and
and assault Law Enforcement Officers
you're not allowed to do that here we
don't do that that's not an American
Playbook and however vehemently you feel
in your hatreds you're not in a morally
Superior position than Martin Luther
King who managed to conduct himself in a
different way in the service of what he
was trying to show America under far
greater threat so we don't get to get a
free pass to do that it's not it's not
how America works and functions and
resolves issues this is not us right so
one of the things that's emerged too it
appears to me as a consequence of the
work that you've done is a much more
detailed appreciation for what
constitutes the necessary Center and
ideal right and that there isn't
anywhere near enough attention focused
on that I mean it's not surprising in
some ways you know because it's easy for
the things that everyone takes for
granted to become invisible and that is
what happens to things that people take
for granted yes right is they become
invisible that's actually what them
being shared constitut but then if
they're under assault you know people
have criticized my work for example the
the more supercilious intellectual types
for being for merely stating the obvious
but there and and you know I actually
appreciate that as a criticism that is
what I think I'm doing is I'm stating
what should be obvious but also mounting
an expl an explanation for why it exists
and then also defending it and that
seems necessary at the current time I
guess the positive dovetailing with your
work at the moment is that there is a
vast pool of shared principles that that
constitutes that's right what
constitutes that's actually what you're
laying out is what constitutes the core
of American values so here we go like we
can let's just jump right to it so 80 to
100% of Americans agree with the
following this by the way is all in the
90s okay freedom of so I believe freedom
of speech and religion 100% agree um I
believe in the freedom to vote and
having every vote counted 97% agree uh
we should stop scam phone calls and
texts and loopholes that allow such
activities 97% I believe in investing in
our kids to ensure they have a brighter
future
98% so one of the lessons here is you
know don't phrase your polling like a
partisan jerk right start with what's
shared upon and then we can build right
so if we say you know sex offenders
belong in jail 96% agree if we try to
ask I believe that success from hard
work should be rewarded and
emulated well that's a very interesting
phrase because it implies that success
can derive from hard work which is of
course the radical leftist communist
types are always attacking anybody who's
anti- meritocratic so that success from
hard work is actually a real thing we
know the best predictor of long-term
life success on the personality side is
trait conscientiousness and so the the
you know my sup Better Health Care
longer marriages longer lifespan I mean
like conscientiousness is it it holds
the world together right right right
well I think too you know an index of
the health of society is probably a
correlation the size of the correlation
between conscientiousness and life
outcome right the higher that
correlation the more the healthier the
society because you're rewarding people
that can delay gratification will invest
in the future keep their word who are
diligent and industrious so if the
correlation between conscientiousness
and success in your culture is zero then
your culture is pathological and that's
you know that's a more conservative
value predictive for conservative that's
the center holding however that's also
for The Fringe to to thrive and for high
openness ideas and people to get in and
permeate the culture so that the culture
can navigate complicated change and it
doesn't become brittle and shatter well
it's also the case that without that
core solidity that the conscientious
provide the open people can't manage
because you can't afford if everything's
chaotic you can't afford experimentation
it's only when the center is really
really stable that wild experimentation
in the arts for example is possible
because otherwise it becomes so
threatening that it tears the culture
apart or the conditions aren't met to
even allow it like the number of
conditions that need to be met in a
culture for me to do my job which is be
a novelist extraordinary ridiculous and
so one of the biggest things that I've
learned that's why what are your
royalties 4% 5% 10% 15 well it depends
on yeah it depends okay okay so so the
reason I'm pointing that out is because
you write the books but 85% of the book
Revenue goes to other sources and you
might say well that's radically unfair
because it's your ideas it's like no the
fact that 85% of what you're producing
is distributed to other sources is an
indication of just exactly how much on
how much of those other sources your
freedom as a writer actually depends
that's right and it's kind of a shocking
thing to realize you know because you
think well I had the idea it's like
great that and 95% of the effort will
get you somewhere and you know
Publishers pay in advance they pay a big
liable Advance RIS there's a huge amount
of gratitude for structures much of what
I've learned in my intrusion into the
culture especially with with with like
deeper and deeper engagement with
conservative thought and thinkers is the
necessity for defining and holding that
Center and how that functions in order
to have what you know I somebody who's
more On The Fringe right I'm an artist I
mean for that to function the interplay
and the relationship between the two and
the need for a healthy relationship
between the two because if either side
dominates it destroys we we go to hell
literally it's the Googs or the camps
like there's no there's no choice if one
side wins is ascendant completely turns
the other side into a dehumanized
monolith and crushes us and America is
50/50 one of the first com well you can
also see that happening in a perverse
way on the art side in general in the US
because as the progressive voices have
dominated the amount of creative freedom
that the artists themselves have has
decreased radically and so is the
quality of the production it's so it's
like well let's Stampede in the
Progressive Direction so well okay now
you don't get to say anything as an
artist and everything becomes dull and
not only dull but hateful and depressing
I mean I've talked to so many people in
the Arts Community who are demoralized
to the nth degree because they don't
have that creative freedom of expression
that is so perversely associated with
the necessity of maintaining that core
conservative well I I thought very much
when you and I went to uh comedy
Mothership when we were in Austin and
you have every shape and size and
orientation on stage making fun of every
shape size and orientation and it was
right when there was the Tucker Carlson
Daryl Cooper interview and sort of
exploded online and it felt so much to
me like it was this that the
psychopathic algorithms can lead to
explosions of people picking up all
sorts of taboos like how about if women
shouldn't vote How about if men should
be pimped how about if we can hate Jews
how about Hitler was a hero like so it's
picking up different things but just
because you can doesn't mean you should
and when we were at the comedy
Mothership I was watching first of all
the mood in there is spectacular it felt
like a comedy club from the 80s or 90s
and everybody was making fun of and
dancing around all the tabos and that's
the way that you make it safe that's the
Court Jester in Shakespeare that's the
play and that's how we can approach
ideas if we joke and make fun of our
ethnicities and orientations and
proclivities and all the taboo topics we
make them safe we laugh among ourselves
our nervous systems are relaxed and it's
moving things comedy of all things the
important thing about joint
demonstrations of that I was at a comedy
show in Toronto with Jimmy Carr and
couple of other Comedians and there was
12,000 people there and the same thing
was happening and it is a celebration of
unity because everyone's there doing the
same thing and partly what they're doing
is making light of their differences
right and so that indicates something
like a common core at least a common
core that enables people to laugh in
that way and a lot of those things have
to be done collectively because it's
very useful psychologically to be in a
room with 12,000 strangers and have
everyone make light of their differences
and everything proceeds peacefully and
playfully and it's a good and a good
time was had by all that's right right
and you don't get to slap a comedian
yeah in a temple of art devoted to them
doing art and it's inoculating
in well sometimes you hear something
where you're like like I can't believe
he just said that right it's inoculating
because there's this playful safe
engagement about different things and
diff you know versus this this sort of
Aid sexless brittleness brought to
topics right well and the comedians that
are pushing the fringes are right out
there on the edge you know keeping the
enemies and the cens yeah and they
always go too far the comedians or or
just almost exactly too far which is
what makes it funny and what that means
is that like they're they're the they're
the people who are either maintaining
the fences or pushing them farther out
and that means mediating entry well and
that people are safe then to come come
in behind them in a more moderate way
and to speak because the extreme the
permission for the extreme version of
that is already been granted it's
crucially important and the artistic
Community should be doing that all the
time because they're push they're
pushing the boundaries pushing the
boundaries isn't the same as destroying
the rules well and if you're
mean-spirited and a comedian people
don't laugh and it's not funny yes right
it's built in test like Dave Chappelle
always funny yeah he says stuff
sometimes I don't agree with but he's a
genius he's he plays by Fair rules even
when he's making a point let's turn back
to some more of these common values
because that's that's crucial let's look
over here so okay so look at this top
this top one for me is so important so
it's important to take care of our
environment and ensure we have clean
fields and streams seas and skies
Americans are tired of political
division 95% agree now fields and
streams obviously talks to Rural America
right season Skies perhaps a bit more to
I don't know liberal inclined people but
the point is if I were to phrase this
and say I believe climate change is an
existential threat I get in the 4S I
would guess and if I say I believe
climate change is a hoax you get in the
40s so why why would we start start
there it's like I used to talk to
Democrats to say don't walk into a town
hall and say I believe Healthcare is a
universal right it's like that's a very
weird starting position how about make
Arguments for its Effectiveness for the
robustness of the community and a value
set that also makes sense financially so
if we're willing to make arguments
within other value structures I mean
look at this um I believe Americans love
their families and the communities are
the heartbeat of America 94% I believe
in gratitude not grievance 86% I believe
in excellence not mediocrity 91% right
that's a crucial one that's a crucial
the USA should have a sovereign border
and immigration should follow the laws
and be safe for everyone 86% agree so
think about that when it comes to law if
we could start there build consensus in
a transparent way with Fair negotiations
for people back to their districts at
home and states I mean we there's so
many things we can solve our greatest
resources are people and we should
invest in rural and urban communities
that have been left behind 93% agree
there's ways that we can have
interventions with communities that have
been legitimately left behind by
corruption and nonsense there's smart
ways to make investments that have
measurable outcomes and as long as we're
what the hell do you think happened
exactly because I mean when I was a kid
which is getting to be a long time ago I
mean one of the things that was an
absolute was absolutely remarkable about
the United States looking at it from a
slightly paranoid Canadian perspective
well when I was a kid the
huge concern in Canada was that we were
just going to become an American
appendage right that that Canadian
identity would be subsumed into the us
and that that actually is not what
happened the countries are more
different now than they were when I was
a kid and Canadians don't obsess about
that anymore but one of the things that
was absolutely remarkable about the US
was its ability to uh agitate for that
core set of values for the American
dream for the Melting Pot for the for
the set for the set of an overarching
objective set of political ideas
grounded in the liberal tradition that
did unite everyone and and what what
made America great was exactly that
ability to produce that shared Central
narrative and you just saw it everywhere
it was implicit in almost everything
that came out of American pop culture
was implicit in the Rock even when it
was protest oriented it was implicit in
the sitcoms it was it was every was
absolutely saturated everywhere and I I
wonder what it was that I guess I would
point to the bloody universities and the
English departments again fractionating
everything and fragmenting everything
and it's part of that postmodern assault
on the main on the main narrative and
look we're also two generations away
from the
last nationally shared American
catastrophe which is World War II like
it's not a coincidence that the last Hol
hust survivors are dying and the
greatest generation is dying we're far
enough away we floated far enough away
from recognizing the true Terrors of
Marxism and communism and Nazism that
they're sort of a memory and I think we
didn't keep Pace we didn't say
solidified enough and there's a bunch of
different ways we could go through what
happened in the political system and
Jerry mandering and cameras in the
chamber and in in the house right and
people spending more time at home rather
than in DC or politicians and shared
communities whenever used to live there
but we didn't keep Pace with the
Technologies we open the door might be a
consequence of something approximating
the pathology of wealth you know is that
you're you have the luxury of tearing
the world down to make it interesting
absolutely absolutely and concentrating
on the small divisions that plague you
because you're so comfortable in your in
your life all things considered that
that you can and we're at a inflection
point now where we can wake up up that
that game is not a great game and set
things right in ways that are long-term
measurable and strategic and good for
the American people across the boards
right so we talked about the fact that
there is a a core of shared values and
ideals and then there's a periphery that
has to experiment with that and then
outside of that there's the domain of
the monsters which would be the
manipulators and the Psychopaths who are
warping both the center and the exper
experimentation to gain on their own
ground by their own terms in a way
that's very hard on everyone else and so
now the Practical question starts to
become how is it that we strengthen the
center while maintaining that ability
for Creative exploration and keep the
Psychopaths and the Bad actors at Bay
right that's first thing is we have to
tack to Shared American values and we
can talk about that in a minute of
defining what they are but that's a
headline what do Americans actually
agree on and agree with and that has to
be about the process as well as
particular political positions or
cultural positions and you think that's
it's possible to do that effectively on
the political side I mean because maybe
you could make the case the cold-blooded
case that if you if you're running a
marginal campaign and there's only a few
percentage of people that have to flip
you over the edge that you speak to the
chronically disaffected identity groups
to try to pull them on board like can
you can you make a a reasonable case
from a political strategic perspective
for attacking towards the center you
said it worked with Harris and the
DNC yeah I think if we can if we can
have I don't think we can look to our
politicians as Our Saviors I think we
can look to them as flawed men and women
figuring out what to do who are exposed
to an enormous amount of insanity and
corruption in a system and if we make if
I think part of our job I on Heria Lee
at work said that Western Civilization
is like this beautiful Cut Flower that's
sitting on a table and our job is to
plant seeds if we plant seeds and if we
can fertilize the American landscape so
that politicians can see that it is to
their benefit to move to the center
which I think that can embolden them in
their leadership well that probably
worked with Harris I mean part of part
of what boosted her popularity as she
took ascendency I believe was an attempt
to lay out more Centrist concerns right
she tried to divorce herself from the
more radical fringes of the party and
the more radical positions so the
empirical evidence that such a thing can
work is already at hand well we know
people are starving for it people want
solutions to their problems people want
to be able to have their neighbors back
right they want to figure out to not
have everything turned into I mean
imagine growing up in this era where
you're a 15-year-old kid in high school
and you're expected to have an opinion
on every single political matter or
cultural matter or sexual matter it's
the wrong opinion you're dead it's it's
it's impossible if your brain hasn't
been sufficiently trained we need to
move back to disciplines within their
own like ethics that exist within Fields
like there's no reason why a college
should be issuing a statement about
every ceasefire agreement that happens
around the world they're endless why are
we focusing so much attention on these
specific things there's no reason why
every you know conversation that happens
in schools um I shouldn't say every
conversation that's a big overstatement
but there's such a strong emphasis that
is placed on sexuality and defining
sexuality for kids in school where they
have to have all sorts of opinions to
figure it out it's confusing topic to
begin with we know the basics of
Education that work we can have schools
return to being a purview of actually
training children and students and young
people for hierarchical boundary issue
right right so they have to keep the
monsters out there we've opened all the
doors to Psychopaths and foreign players
I think and The Fringe hasn't been so
The Fringe is starting to deteriorate
and the center has all sorts of cracks
in that right and we have to remember
with regards to The Fringe that although
The Fringe is where all the useful
experimentation takes place and the
creative Endeavor that's necessary to
revitalize there's a subset always of
The Fringe that is the patholog iCal
actors right and so and and that's a
very difficult dancing job to allow for
enough Freedom you know so here's a good
example of that you know um America is
more creative than Japan and has a much
higher crime rate like those might be
the same thing in fact if you if you
look at crime age curves and creativity
age curves they match perfectly right so
so that that issue of handling The
Fringe is a very complex issue because
you need that experimentation but you
you have to differentiate the genuine
experimenters from the people who are
attempting to demolish the culture only
to further their own their own positions
yeah and Pou speaks so beautifully that
the monster of the left or the Monstrous
left is too much hybridization so it
can't hold together a gargoyle and the
Monsters of the rice are too much
sameness and so yeah the psych the
psychopathy of The Fringe has a
different effect that self-
cannibalizing and wild that's mouse say
tongue and Stalin than the rigidity and
increasing sameness of a cycle like
Hitler who's constantly okay so meridin
truth not victim oppressor narrative
there's only three roles if you view the
world in an oppressor in a victim
oppressor narrative there's only three
roles available you're a victim you're
an oppressor or you're a
persecutor none of those are good roles
you can't ever get to a place of
stability in that if you're a victim
what do you want to be a persecutor ag
or an oppressor yeah right I mean all
those roles are unpalatable and they're
designed to disintegrate and sever the
fabric of a culture so we need to get
out of that way of thinking that's
constantly dividing and analyzing and
measuring and grouping that's why so
much like classical religious practice
let's say focuses on gratitude it's
because if you're focusing on what's
good about the position that you're in
and the opportunities that are in front
of you it stops you from falling into
that vengeful resentful victim category
and you see clearly like that's that's a
great example to dovetail with the
Russian operatives who are painting
stars of David you the culture will move
in the direction that it's nudged
psychologically so if what's starting to
proliferate everywhere is hatred and
grievance that story starts to become
the reality if what we're permeating
everywhere is Merit and gratitude and we
know this is true in our own households
in our own jobs do you want to go work
in a job where everybody is divisive and
out for eles and comparing or do you
want to create just fail the Enterprise
will just fail and that's that's where a
lot of countries in the west and America
we are on the precipice of that if we
can't move to gratitude for what we have
we don't deserve to keep what we well
and the gratitude that gratitude isn't a
kind of naivity about the about the past
that gratitude isn't a constant
unceasing attempt to identify positive
opportunity in the midst of chaos and
strife and the understanding that that's
a moral requirement right it's not the
insistence that the world is just a Rosy
and positive place it's the
discriminating search for the kinds of
spaces that enable you to take an
opportunity and move forward in the
future and that that highlights this
moving forward issue too how we move to
peace and unity 1% of people prefer to
focus on addressing past inj in
injustices to achieve Justice compared
to
57% who prefer to focus on solving
current and future problems to move
forward right and that's a healthy
orientation like that's a staggering
finding it it yeah 1% is is absolutely
is is absolutely trivial it's probably
the percentage of the people who who
were confused about the question so you
said tacking to Shared American values
meritan
truth rather than the victim oppressor
narrative don't make demands that
impinge on the rights and freedoms of
others so that's something like an ethos
of responsibility historical gratitude
not grievance and that's worth pausing
on just for a moment we talk a lot about
our historic Grievances and and anything
in the world and anything that man is
involved with is corrupt whether that's
going to be America or the Catholic
Church like you can pick anything and
point to corruption because we're human
beings but we forget I think a lot of
times like the level of gratitude my
primary identity outside of my
individual identity is as an American I
view I have so much historic gratitude
for America in its role in in in how it
received my other identities like as a
Jew America is incredible and you could
focus on well Roosevelt turned the ships
around and he should have you know
during World War II and he should have
been better and he should have done this
but America went overseas you know
liberated the camps when Jews were
trying to get visas even when Roosevelt
was hedging you know who opened up and
got them student um positions as
professors or students were the
historically black colleges we've had it
and and you know when my grandfather
went to college there was quotas on Jews
in medical school when I went there
wasn't a trace of it like it's America's
been a dream if you go and
watch um protests and vigils around
Israel or around around Jews there's
constantly American flags in it it's and
I think part of what we have to do
within whatever group that we're in is
not look as much back towards the things
that we have grievance over but to even
though some of them I don't mean to
dismiss grievance and I don't mean to
dismiss trauma and the only way to
really eradicate it is through Truth and
Reconciliation which is a very different
path than this kind of path so I'm not
saying that there's
not a dress that needs to happen but we
have to I think in taking care of and
and Shoring up our own communities
whatever they are and however they're
defined none of which are a monolith not
black communities Hispanic communities
Jewish communities there's Jews have
every opinion across the political
Spectrum well there's certainly not a a
monolith of opinion in relationship to
ethnic or racial identity obviously and
political orientation it's like people
who think like Hispanics and blacks are
such a why it's such a foolish way of
dividing people oh makes it makes no
sense but if the groups like for me as
as a as a Jew just part of how I feel
naturally is to look to all the shared
American values that we have and that to
me is is there's a lot of that that's
shared within the Jewish community and I
think that there's a emphasis on
historic gratitude of what we've been
given by by America and what we have
given been allowed to give to America
Jews have given everything they have to
America and America's given everything
back it's incredible doesn't mean
there's not anti-Semitism it doesn't
mean there AR I don't think there's an
ethnic group for which that isn't true
in the United States that's exactly
right I mean the contrib exactly right
the the the contribution of the black
community to American culture is
absolutely staggering America is not
America without the black community it's
it's inwoven from the beginning like
like music for example oh my God and and
intellectual thought I mean soul and I
mean and and Poets and political
leadership and moral leadership and
spiritual leadership and I mean it's you
know I mean look I grew up reading
Langston Hughes and Ellison and Richard
Wright and that's it's stitched into the
narrative but you know I can't all I can
speak about in terms of where I
think we should so this is a tilt I
would say this is part of what I can see
as a transformation in some ways or a f
further elaboration of your your
appreciation for the conservative
Viewpoint which is that there is a
central narrative that's uniting and
it's necessary to butress that and to
uphold it I mean we've been trying to
wrestle at ARC for example in an
discussions with Paso and people like
that with the idea of how you strengthen
the center and maintain that
experimental Vitality On The Fringe it's
a very tricky thing to manage but I
would also say that the US has managed
that historically better than any other
country and continues to do that and
thank God for that like seriously thank
God for that that's part of how we are
the the world looks to America it's
partially because of that because we
have integrated the best of every
Community we have the most
integrated you know pick pick a category
Ethiopian Muslim Arab Jewish it's
everyone can be part of this fabric
everyone well you saw that particularly
I would say
exemplified in the case of what's
happened with
with
Indians in the tech industry I mean I
don't know what where do where do
indian-americans rank in terms of net
income is it number one it's it's I
think so I I think they're number one
and by and by quite a substantial margin
and so that's a really good example I
mean I watched that massive influx of
extremely bright Indian engineers in
particular into Silicon Valley and that
was part of what helped Silicon Valley
Thrive like Matt and produce the
absolute economic miracle that
constitutes Silicon Valley and then all
that money got dumped back into India so
interestingly and then India itself
started to thrive like mt I mean it's
such a it's such a great model and
that's a very recent example of uh very
high level of immigrant success you see
the same thing with nigerian-americans
for example oh yeah Nigerians are
amazing yeah all right all right so okay
so we have a road map in civil rights
for how we handle disagreement and
protests we don't have to reinvent the
entirety of the wheel of determining how
that functions but right now the
difference is we have this incredibly
accelerated rate of tech propagation
mind control so we need some new
measures so what can we do I wanted to
focus on a few things that are concrete
what it's agre an agreed upon shared
American value set equality of
opportunity not equality of outcome and
the more the first gets corrupted the
more Temptation there is to push for the
second right so people a lot of people
have pulled up the ladder behind them
well what one of the things we should
focus on very briefly with regards to
equality of opportunity too is that we
we have to understand that opening the
door to to opportunity for everyone it's
very good for the individuals involved
but you could make a sociological case
that that's not the fundamental issue
the fundamental issue is you want to
open the doors on the equality of
opportunity side because you want the
broad culture to be able to benefit from
the specific contributions of the most
able people and any arbitrary barriers
are going to to to what Forstall that
are going to work against that like the
reason that you want extremely
intelligent hardworking Creative Kids at
Harvard isn't so they can have Stellar
careers that's part of it and good for
them that's not the issue the issue is
you want to educate those people like
mad because they're going to produce
products that are so useful for everyone
else that if those particular people
have a few privileges along the way
that's just fine so equality of
opportunity is the best sociological
solution as well as the best
psychological solution when I was there
as an undergraduate one of the first
things they told us they gathered
everyone in sver Hall and they said
you're going to learn more here from
your classmates than from your
professors and I thought that was you
know a silly kind of old saw that you
and it's absolutely true and that cohort
which was was I mean people all over the
world people all over the country and it
was incredible in terms of the
strengthening of one's mind to see
people from every reach of America
internationally all trained up under a
joint narrative that that's continuing
friendships across different states of
being every single kind of group Merit
and merit-based selection is the best
way to ensure that so we know for
example that the alternative to
merit-based selection historically has
been Dynasty and nepotism and that's a
that there's no productivity in Dynasty
and nepotism because it means that you
know your your right to position is
determined by your by your birth by your
state of birth has nothing to do with
your confidence you do get Good China
though yeah yeah well right right all
right so gratitude not grievance rule of
law Pursuit Of Truth focus on outcomes
reality is where ideology goes to die
that's like that's something I wrote and
taped to my wall if you're solving
Solutions with measurable outcomes look
there's a lot of libertarianism has
crept into my world view much more as
I've pursued things yeah right measure
something not by its intentions but its
outcomes in a way everything's
irrelevant I don't care what your
intentions are I don't that's true on
the on the social intervention side
because you have to ensure that your
intervention is producing the
consequences that you that you desired
and it's very unlikely because there's a
million ways things can go wrong and
generally only one or two ways they can
go right so concrete steps uphold Free
Speech prosecute illegal action it's
fairly easy if people are breaking laws
and throwing bottles at police officers
and
blocking traffic and making true threats
against individuals and vandalizing
buildings and people's houses they can
be arrested and actually prosecuted we
don't need to make exceptions for them
any differently than were made for the
Harvey Milk or the leaders of the Civil
Rights Movement but people are allowed
to have their opinions they're allowed
to criticize any St that includes Israel
any leadership which includes Netanyahu
allowed to peacefully protest they're
allowed to compete in a free Marketplace
of ideas no problem but we don't break
the law and we know that um and that's
from both sides of the fence right
that's we have fringes who do that on
both sides you know face coverings in
masks it protests if they're being used
to Menace and terrorize that should be
illegal that's the that's the purview of
the
KKK right that's not that's not what we
do stand behind you know you can't can't
cover your face to do things that are
illegal or to terrorize
people um and then the algorithms in
social media that's almost a whole other
discussion for because you and I have
been talking about this a lot about but
there's ways to maintain freedom of
speech but that doesn't mean freedom of
reach for profet which means if I say
the most outrageous misogynistic or
anti-semitic or insane thing that the
alos should drive that for profit for
corporations when the alos are are
hidden covertly behind firewalls that we
don't even know who we're talking to or
if they're American we we should also be
aware of presuming that the tech people
themselves can solve these problems
because it like I see this with
Zuckerberg and with with uh musk and
perhaps they're on opposite sides of the
political spectrum they still have the
same problem corruption aside no one
knows how to regulate the regulate
online discourse like to bring the rule
of law and order to online discourse no
one solved that problem half of online
activity is Criminal across the board
right pornography outright crime and
then the sort of Quasi crimes that
constitute trolling and so forth and no
one knows how to regulate that and we
shouldn't expect the tech Engineers to
be able to manage that without but
there's as you've said and we've
discussed there are some concrete steps
we can make one of them is we need
transparent algorithms to know if 60% of
the people who are screaming about
anti-Semitism and encouraging it are
Russian Bots that's a good thing to know
that's not a distinguish the human
actors from the non-human actors and you
discuss if you're anonymous and don't
want to stand behind your words online
yeah you don't need to be censored
there's a whistleblower issue but you
could certainly be in a second tier of
comments below an interface of people
who are willing that's not much
different than stopping masking because
online anonymity is the virtual
equivalent of masking right and the
other thing is that you pointed to quite
sanely
is everything to some extent needs some
degree of human intervention that's okay
whether it's a Tesla Factory whether
it's a you everything cannot be on
automated well you can't automate the
edge cases you can't that's what
Consciousness that's actually what
Consciousness itself is for yes right
because as we can transform something
into an algorithm neurologically
speaking we become it's unconscious yes
right we transformed regulating our
heartbeat into an algorithm you're never
conscious of that it runs on its own and
once you've got something down it should
run on its own but there's always an
edge of transformation right the edge of
transformation can't be
algorithmization with free speech right
thought is internalized speech Yes and
so the way that Consciousness navigates
that transformative Edge that can't be
transformed in into a algorithm is
through the mechanism of free discourse
that's the mechanism yes and so and
there has to be a wide variety of
opinions because we don't know how to
[Music]
algorithmization can't say look we've
we've identified 150 to 250 people who
are clearly bent on sewing chaos
terrorizing America here they are here's
the processes that we have undertaken
they're completely transparent and it
doesn't necessarily mean you even
deplatform them but could you perhaps
turn down their reach that you're taking
advantage of for profit because they're
driving outrage and hatred and more and
more people are turned into swirl of
hatred that is not a good long-term
strategy for any company or any country
not unless it wants to be overrun by
manipulative Psychopaths that's right
and so any platform will get Rife with
it and people will leave and look you
and Michaela and and Jordan Fuller have
solved this Peterson Academy everybody
has to have their name who has comment
there's a social board people pay a a a
reasonable but low price of Entry to
have access to the classes and the
discourse on there is entirely sane we
can have interf approximating an owner
code which is like if you act like a
jerk you can have your money back and
leave and you might say well who decides
that and well the answer at the moment
is twofold the community itself is
deciding that but we are watching too
and we've identified three people out of
30,000 who've caused trouble three
people right and the discourse in there
especially as it builds out we can have
these interfaces just like kids Jonathan
height is suggesting limitations on when
kids have their phones is there any
reason we need like com to have access
to them from 8:00 am or 4 in the morning
if a tweet alerts we can have
limitations on that you private
companies can also make limitations on
how they want to conduct their
Marketplace of ideas and what's one
person in a classroom having a constant
temper tantrum that means nobody can
learn I was trying to distinguish the
other day between referee and censor
like they they're game rules by which
civilized discourse has to proceed a
referee makes sure that the rules are
being applied fairly and across the
board everyone knows what they are a
sensor is someone who's making arbitrary
behind the scenes decisions and I think
we can discriminate between censors and
referees especially if you do it early
and you set the ground rules yeah right
right okay so American control this is
fascinating three and a half or or 3.5
more Americans believe that American
News organizations and social media
platforms should be owned by us entities
to prevent the spread of foreign
propagation and disinformation of course
like would Iran allow us to have a major
networking effort through social media
that goes to their entire populace would
China allow us to do that does Russia
does Brazil right yes most notably in
recently but so it's perfectly
acceptable to understand that America is
allowed to have a national identity one
that is shared and good and creates a
lot of space for people of different
groups to compete though we have a lot
of obstacles we have to get right to to
remove those obstacles to equality of
opportunity and that's what's driving a
lot of these problems but the more we
can focus on solving those real problems
we are certainly allowed to have
ownership of who is educating our kids
and driving our discourse in the hands
of Americans that's that's that's not an
outrageous proposal so this is a bill
which is about it's called P it is postp
partisan it's sponsored by Senator Coons
Cassidy kashar uh cornin Blumenthal and
Romney and basically this bill that's
that's that's right now is is is going
forth is basically just causing um us to
be able to have trans us them someone to
have transparency on what the algorithms
are it's not to attack Free Speech it's
not to give censorship control but it's
to say we and the public have a right to
know what is happening we need more
content moderation and viral posts we
want transparency around that what if
something's being spread from a troll
Farm of you know a thousand people in St
Petersburg don't we want to know that
you see some size association with that
it's like is there a is there an
indication of what size a social network
has to have before it's subject to that
kind of Regulation I'm not sure the
details will be within that and there's
a long ways to go on TCH but I think it
doesn't mean that we have to freeze up
at the precipice of the problem and say
oh my God free speech like the Deep
state will take control and my enemies
will have this control to destroy me we
can start with transparency and this is
a post-partisan
committee that's I wonder if to to what
degree the the free market Solutions are
actually appropriate with regards to
regulation of behavior online because it
seems to me that and I don't know this
and I don't think anybody knows but I
have been wrestling with the question
of
if accounts that are free
produce produce dark tetrad Invasion and
and foreign agent Invasion right free is
the wrong value for your online identity
because it gets gamed and so I mean
could there be Russian bought Farms if
every account cost $40 a month or would
it become in instantly economically
untenable right free is the see the
problem with free as far as I can tell
online is that your attention is
valuable so free is the wrong amount of
money to have to pay to get access to it
it's it's not right it's not it's not
indicate it's not an indication of the
actual underlying reality and it doesn't
work to say I'm mad at EXP experts or
corrupt members of this institution or
this party so all information should be
equal that's not a solution for that we
have to be able to moderate and
negotiate
between sensibilities of people with
different personality structures High
trade openness and high tra
conscientiousness whether you want to
call that liberal and conservative it
doesn't matter but there's a reason that
all humans have this across an
evolutionarily selected or god-given
however you want to view it there's a
reason we're distributed across this tra
structure it's selected for it's given
so that we can contend with each other
and move forward reasonably and right
now we don't have trained young minds we
have a lot of problems and holes in
discourse we have a lot of people
captured by mind control we could have a
whole conversation about why these are
actual cult mind control methods and
techniques being used and we we're it's
like we're incapable of of of
differentiating and part of the problem
is now we have to navigate who gets to
get control now over educating our kids
who gets to come in now and fix
University so what's happened in a way I
guess and maybe we can tie everything
together with this closing remarks is
that we have these new technologies that
have leveled the communication playing
field like and that's opened up a
massive amount of opportunity but it's
also destroyed all the intermediary
structures that were that had previously
regulated the manner in which we
communicate and so now there's a
free-for-all on that front and the
advantage of the free-for-all is oh my
God we can move information around at
such a low cost to so many people and
and isn't that an amazing opportunity
for all the long form podcasters for
example for online educational Endeavors
but the downside is that it's also
opened the landscap up to the vicious
manipulators the criminals the
Psychopaths and the bad foreign actors
and that's that's a real danger it's and
it's a danger it's a cross-partisan
danger and it's danger to the structure
of civilization itself not only because
of the foreign influences which is akin
to war on the in the virtual realm but
also because the criminals and the
Psychopaths and the dark tetrad types
mean they thrive in chaos and they want
to sew it and they do that only for
themselves right and that's the
perennial perennial human landscape
isn't it is that you know your culture
has to be centered around some shared
structure of values that's going to be
that's and you're going to need
experimentation at the fringes to keep
that vital
that's going to be threatened by the
internal criminal psychopath types
because it always is that's the evil
Uncle of the king which is the oldest
possible story or Cain or Satan himself
for that matter right the inter Eternal
threat of the pathological and then you
have the threat of the foreign Invader
which is exactly the same thing that's
being playing out in the virtual
landscape with regards to the
information Wars that are being
conducted by Iran and by Russia and by
China the only yes and the only
mediation that that I see it for this is
we have to have some kind of return to
the
institutions that could like as much as
we are angry or disgusted by various
levels of corruption and capture through
them and it's infuriating if we don't
have the
institutions we don't have the
structures in place to hold wild
brilliant personalities or psychopaths
in order that it we're conducting it
like an orchestra that America can can
continue to be America we so it's a
return first principles and you're
identifying that to some degree by what
everybody agrees on and then there has
to be something
approximating a reinstitutionalization
of those first principles both
politically and technologically so that
this the the core is strengthened and we
know how to do that that's that's really
the optimistic side of what you've been
investigating is that the the center is
actually there it's vital its principles
are correct and it could hold yeah we
should water that not the vine
stringling it right right do you want to
just talk about this documentary very
briefly and then we'll we'll fold up the
Iranian community in the diaspora are
spectacular I mean for minute one part
of what I noticed was the moral Clarity
and the dignity and the strength of when
Iranian voices were discussing this from
all sorts of backgrounds and all sorts
of religions and we thought that rather
than they're the best and most vocal
speakers to what this Playbook is they
lived through it they're the ones who
they remember their grandparents with
their having their hair down as as their
grandmothers as young women and cooking
in the kitchen they this is this is what
the Playbook successfully executed looks
like and I think they're very important
voices for us to hear and um so we we
got together and and and produce this
documentary with that direction and we
interview a series of people lay out and
describe their background the history of
the Revolution and what they're seeing
here and what is a familiar Playbook and
also where that is like where that
Playbook leads when it is successfully
executed and so we thought that's a good
sort of case study to be able to close
out on to see this is this is a um
cautionary tale for where we're going to
go if we can't tack our way back towards
the reasonable Center where 80 to 100%
of Americans are waiting to be received
um and to vote and to move forward and
devote their resources together to
investing in and fixing America and the
highly complicated problems that we have
and where can people follow us the story
we're on X Instagram and YouTube and
we've been banned by Tik Tok right well
congratulations on that front you must
be doing something right so okay so
that's us the story right so I think for
everybody watching listening I'm going
to talk to Greg on The Daily wire side
behind the um pay wall there I think
about the manner in which his political
views has shifted over the last decade
really something like that so let's walk
through that story The your attempts to
pull the Democrats to the center the
successes and failures in that regard um
your adoption maybe or your integration
of some more conservative and you said
libertarian views how that's transformed
and we can have a discussion about that
and I can do the same and so you could
Greg and I have been engaged in a
discussion for a long time often on
quite radically different partisan from
radically different partisan
perspectives you know that's varied as
the years have gone by but um it it'll
be useful and interesting I think to
delve into that and and also to speak to
talk through more the issue of well say
riding the ship on the Democrat side and
trying to pull people to the center
versus mounting a allout assault on the
Republican side to push the Democrats
into a corner so that they're required
to do that because that's been a
continual conundrum for me ethically and
practically and so anyways you can join
us on the daily wire side for that and
that would be much appreciated then
thank you to the film crew here today in
La for making this possible and Greg
it's always a pleasure to talk to you
and uh well onward and upward with
regards to us the story and the attempt
to what would you say push back against
the Psychopaths and the bad foreign
actors and to strengthen the center and
to rectify some of the informational
imbalances that are warping the culture
online particularly in relationship to
young women and Tick Tock so thank you
very much sir thank you thanks for the
discussion
[Music]